[Music]
Victor Davis Hanson a classical scholar
at the Hoover Institution at Stanford
University and a farmer in the San
Joaquin Valley of California dr. Hanson
has published more than two dozen books
including a war like no other the
definitive account of the Peloponnesian
wars and the case for Trump the
paperback edition of which has just been
published Victor welcome and welcome
everyone to uncommon knowledge with
Peter Robinson Victor let's start with
your own experience you live among
farmers and ranchers you yourself owned
40 acres
what is the shutdown meant to the San
Joaquin Valley well you know it's funny
because we're the richest in terms of
actual value crop sold about 40
different varieties in the in the United
States in fact for density in the world
and we're feeding right now we mean not
me but the people of this County and why
was no heater there's a main
thoroughfare from two rural towns Danube
and Carruthers there's a lot of chicken
processing almond processing chicken
beef the Harris be flawed is right over
here and citrus and it's just booming I
mean its people I'm looking out the
window right now and there's two people
out in my almond orchard working so it
hasn't stopped a bit because it's
outdoor activity and we're told that 97
percent of the transmissions of the
virus are within doors and then people
feel they do really feel a need they
have to keep working because the
truckers and them and the processors and
the packing houses and the farmers are
they feel they're needed but if I go
into these little local towns that are
right the one two miles behind me has a
per capita income of $13,000 salma and
it's been it looks like a you remember
the neutron bomb of our college days we
dropped the bomb and the radiation
destroyed everything without impairing
the infrastructure that's what it looks
like no yeah so that people in the
barber shop
the restaurant all of them have been
wiped out I will say that among a lot of
the immigrant community many of them
here illegally I admire their
entrepreneurship because up and down
this rural road there are illegal
daycare centers barber shops canteens
and my neighbor right over here must
have 30 cars a day I shouldn't say that
because I don't want him to be turned in
but he's cutting hair all day long oh
really
yes and so they had another customer
before this is over yes I know it if I
had hair I'd be his customer but I think
you have a Newsom's
at some point I don't think what Newsom
or Cuomo or Trump says will be the
ultimate arbiter arbiter of whether we
get back or not it's where people feel
confident enough to go out and book a
fly go to a restaurant bite people over
for dinner accept or accepted until that
confidence is restored with Victor Kelly
California itself California stuff
you've written in the last couple of
weeks you've written a couple of times
on the Golden State let me quote you on
the eve of the epidemic California
seemed especially vulnerable given the
large influx of visitors from China
close quote
yet California you went on to know it
has so far suffered a relatively low
death rate even a relatively low
infection rate as these antibody tests
begin to come in by comparison with
other large states the only large state
with a lower death rate per unit of
population is Texas California's much
better off than New York for example
what's going on do we know yet I don't
think we do and I what a controversial
article I didn't come down necessarily
and anyone exegesis I just said here
were the parameters of the debate people
had said well maybe California's
notorious bureaucracy it's pretty bad
anybody's gone to a California DMV the
testing was late or was inaccurate or
maybe there is some credence to this
theory that warmer weather it's going to
be 91 here today or maybe it could be
that Gavin newson on March 19th was the
first to order a lockdown but I mean
people three days later in New York and
two days later in other states
followed suit or it could be and this is
what got me into trouble is that I might
suggest that the January 21st official
date of anybody in the United States
getting the virus and I think it was
March 10th I questioned that and I said
when you had 15 to 20 thousand people
come in from China and of that number
people had estimated 3,000 a day to Los
Angeles but maybe 6,000 at San Diego San
Jose SFO and LAX on direct flights
including more than 25 flights from
Wuhan in november/december in January
before they cut off and then after the
cutoff on directed flights from Europe
for two weeks it would be very naive to
think out of that huge pool of anywhere
from 700 to a million people there
wasn't somebody that was positive and
that we would have well I didn't say
we'd had herd immunity 50 to 70 percent
I thought that the number of people that
were infected was much higher than we
thought and what I meant by that was we
were doing even better than the
statistics because we were running as we
are now about three out of a hundred
according to those who have test
positive in the denominator versus the
fatalities in the numerator but when you
look at the USC study and the Stanford
researchers study they suggested it
could in fact be if you do the math not
three out of a hundred but one or two
per thousand right and that's pretty a
stark and that suggests to me that there
is I'm not gonna say it's 15 or 20
percent 15 was found in New York today
15 in Germany but let's see what
infected 15 yeah I think there's more
people that have it and we're finding
out that it's not quite as lethal and
California is not quite it's 1/10 dense
most dense state in the Union so it's
not scattered like Wyoming but we're not
like New York and we don't have people
don't use the subway as much and we have
I think there's a lot of studies that
suggest warmer weather it's not going to
kill the virus but if you had a choice
you'd rather have the
a warmer climate because when it's out
of the body on the surface or in the air
it's not going to live as long so all of
those I think incrementally help explain
what's going on but we're surely not
going to get his March nineteenth letter
you remember to Donald Trump and CDC etc
that we were going to have 25 million
cases and we were going to have at the
gather new that said that yeah and we at
the lethality rate of three percent at
the time that would given us almost 800
to a million deaths he said that would
be in eight weeks were only three weeks
away from a million deaths and we're
having about 1,500 1,400 dead right
right again to quote a column that you
wrote recently moving from California to
the nation now throwing some twenty
million people out of work since you
wrote that the numbers gone up to 22 I
believe 22 million people out of work
destroying trillions and liquidity
sending the GDP into depression like
descendants and shutting up over a
hundred million people in their homes is
having health consequences that could
ripple out far more so than from the
virus itself close quote explain that
Victor I don't think we've even
scratched the surface Peter because
there are I just went to a doctor this
morning a cardiologist and and they
don't have any patients there and then
he referred me to as many referrals as
he could cram in because they don't have
any patients and what I'm getting at is
there are hundreds of thousands of
Californians who need scans they need
procedures they didn't need diagnostic
tests they need quote unquote optional
surgeries in cardiology oncology
diseases chronic conditions lupus are
thriving it where we know from the 2008
meltdown that the suicide rate went way
up as unemployment went up
we know that spousal and familial abuse
increases when people are locked within
we know anxieties and when you add six
or seven trillion dollars of destroyed
liquidity and GDP that that's gonna have
an effect on people's lives so and we're
another thing we're go ahead are you say
Attis fide you've dipped into the White
House briefings that have been taking
place the president speaks and then he
takes questions but then there other
officials dr. b RI x bi RX dr. Burks I'm
not sure how to pronounce it
yes dr. foul G other public health
officials have spoken I myself keep
waiting public policy forming public
policy you learn this in any Kennedy
school any school of public policy it's
all about trade-offs the fundamental
form of analysis is cost-benefit
analysis and I have not heard them once
refer to the costs that you just
outlined that is to say why not because
the the left the progressive left has
prepped the battlefield and given the
narrative to trump that if it's worth to
save one life right and you can't you're
he's he thinks in a political sense he's
not going to be able to get the country
back if we get a hot spot and then the
New York Times has this picture of this
picture this picture with a cap Trump
dad from and so he's airing but you're
quite right what he should be doing is
that every one of these press
conferences he should have minuchin he
should have the chairman of the Joint
Chiefs he should have some type of
Federal Reserve Officer and then he
should have Falchi and burps and I
should say these are the medical
opinions this is these national security
threats because after all China and Iran
are doing all sorts of strange things
right now and this is the economic and
I've got to take all of these frames of
input and synthesize them and give you
an answer that's what he should be doing
but the medical community has
established this premise that unlike any
other contagion in our history that we
have certain rules now that we've never
had before when we have the flu like
2017 60 million people were estimated
but we didn't just say well the
denominator to determine the molarity
will only be determined by the number of
those who test positive for the flu go
to your doctor that would be the quarter
million and
and we know that somewhere around 61,000
dice over there for Wow one of ten
people died of the flu let's shut down
the country but we're doing that with
this virus because it's a corona not an
influenza strain we know that it came
from China we know it's an election year
we know Donald Trump is widely hated by
his opponents and it turned out to be a
perfect storm it was just too many you
know straws on the camel's back to bear
and we ended up with this utter hysteria
and panic well okay - let me see if I
can tease you into getting yourself into
trouble again do you oppose the shutdown
as it has taken place so far I oppose
the lockdown after pretty much next week
God because and then I do support based
on what you see will say the swedish
model or the japanese model explained
that for a moment the swedish yes but in
both of those cases they have the
swedish model people are social
distancing older people people with
underlying conditions are being told to
stay home and self isolate but the
economy schooling restaurants remain
open
like what japan is a little bit
different but essentially the japan also
has not shut down its entire economy yes
and they tend to be doing probably not
quite as good as germany but nobody ever
does as good as germany and most things
and then not as well i mean better than
places that are completely shut down
like France or Spain or Italy or the UK
and then the second thing that the
Stanford researchers and the USC
researchers have also pointed out that
for people who are not my age I'm 66 but
under 60 and don't have a chronic health
condition it's likely that about 99.9%
of them one out of a thousand will die
but the other 99.9 will live and
therefore they could be going out into
the general population and acquiring
herd immunity and then that would
actually protect the people that are
shut in because when they go out after
this lock
over people that were younger have
weather disease with either mild or no
symptoms and then they're not going to
infect the vulnerable people but what
we're doing now is we're putting
generations within the same house people
do go up to shop and we're making people
more vulnerable because it's easier to
transmit the virus within close quarters
and we're not developing the level of
immunity that will be necessary to get
us to the vaccination Matt you know
promised land Victor you have I hope
once all this is over in my own mind
I've been saving this for late summer
when the campaign is beginning to get
underway in earnest I want to do a whole
show devoted on your new paperback
edition of the case for Trump to which
you've added new material well let me
just ask right now Donald Trump's
comportment as national leader in this
crisis strengthens or weakens the case
for Trump well I think it strengthens
the books theme I don't know because the
case for Trump wasn't Trump isn't
infallible but this is why people voted
for him it was really the case for the
people who voted for Trump or are trying
to explain to other people who did not
why he won and why he has not imploded
or why he wasn't a left winger or why he
wasn't a nutty right winger or not why
he wasn't incompetent because what's -
things are happening he did and it's
typical Trump what Trump says and what
Trump does are two different things
right now if you look at right now the
the travel ban was supposedly called
xenophobic and racist by everybody from
CNN to the Chinese Communist Party to
Joe Biden everybody now who said that is
not willing to have the intellectual
integrity to say I was right and you've
got to lift that ban right now they're
welcome to try it but they don't say a
word so they agree with it and then we
know that after that three weeks in the
case of Nancy Pelosi she said come to
Chinatown and hug people we know that
blah blah CEO and Cuomo did something
analogous so that was a brilliant move
and it stopped fifteen to twenty
thousand people coming in we also know
that nobody is saying I wish we had open
borders with Mexico we had more
caravans like last summer nobody's
saying that so that was that was good
they're also saying we'd like the idea
that the president has the ability to
stop travel from any country that cannot
guarantee passport control that was that
was good we like the idea the president
said I'm not if you want to have an
off-label use and he did that in 2018
with end-of-life
desperation drugs so to speak off-label
uses so that was a precursor for
hydroxychloroquine so all that's been
very good and he got all those
executives in and we're gonna have
ventilators coming out of our ears
pretty soon we're probably going to
supply the world with ventilators
because of world war ii like ramping up
yes but where he I think and I've said
this in the book as sort of a tragic
hero is that he gets in these press
conferences and it's basically the New
York Washington East Coast corridor
media trying to get get him and bade him
and this is a guy who was a Prentice
star for eleven years so he loves the
repart t yeah and he goes back and forth
and he best them and he beats them and
he he scores these tactical victories
but strategically it explains why his
ratings have gone down a little bit
because what happens they take a snippet
here and a snippet here and they run it
on network news CBS NBC ABC MSNBC and
they take it out of context and he looks
like he's petty and he's narcissistic so
I think he would be much better and you
hinted at it to come out and say this is
all that we've done
here's fowey here's Burke's here's
minuchin here are the military people go
to it and cut the whole thing down from
two hours or an hour to 25 minutes all
right
plague in the ancient world Victor you
wrote recently I'm going to quote you
the unknown plague at Athens 432 429 PC
killed one quarter of the Athenian
population during the Peloponnesian War
wrecking the social structure of the
city in 542 ad during a virulent bubonic
plague epidemic millions perished
throughout the Byzantine Empire we could
add the black death of the 14th century
that killed between 30 and 60 percent of
the
population of Europe incidentally as I
understand it is now believed that that
black death originated in Central Asia
who knows Wuhan of the Wuhan of the day
the so the point here is that that you
make plagues pandemics these have
represented an expected feature of human
life as recently as a century ago when
we had the influenza of 1918 should we
have seen this one coming we meaning the
human species should have we kind of got
in the idea that unlike I don't know
what the Athenian plague is there's a
good case for typhus or even typhoid
maybe smallpox I doubt smallpox and we
know that the constantinople byzantine
plague was black plague as was but we
know what the 14th century bubonic
plague that really wiped out italy and a
lot of the mediterranean so we had the
idea that these were all biblical
plagues like and they were dangerous
they were typhoid mary in chicago or
yellow fever with general washington but
they were the results of poor sanitation
for drinking water sewage disposal they
and pre vaccination pre-antibiotic pre
viral and that we had transcended that
well nobody ever said humans and animals
are in a constant challenge in response
technique and human nature being what it
is the more knowledge you gain that can
help you defeat natural phenomenon of
the more danger somebody's going to use
it or be lacks about it putting a viral
for level 4 laboratory in the hands of
the Chinese is like giving a firecracker
to a five-year-old because they had not
had the institutional checks and balance
the 7280 a hundred year history of two
steps forward one took back in Bible
research so all we have done is
substituted the the 19th century
problems of sewage and drinking water
for the 21st postmodern problems of
viable safety and an antiseptic
environment so I you have argued before
to me and in men
of your books that war is a permanent
part of the human condition and it is
simply modern hubris to suppose as so
many people seem to suppose in the 20s
that the League of Nations would stop
war or that the whole first world war
would be in the end the war to end all
wars war was a permanent aspect of human
life so if we learn anything deep from
this virus is it that the virus is
teaching us something about is that that
the virus is another affront to modern
day hubris this could learn about the
human condition I think especially in
the Obama years we had this idea of
there's a trajectory of the arc of
history remember the moral arc yeah
bending and the more and that it was a
pre determinist we got that a little bit
with Paul Kennedy the rise and fall the
great powers we got it with Francis
Fukuyama end of history there was this
idea that as we could become more free
and democratic and more technologically
adept and we have more Facebook Google
Apple we're and Bill Gates working for
us and all that we're getting morally
and economically and financially at a
higher plane we're all going up here and
there's no evidence necessarily to say
that history always goes in a linear
progression is cyclical maybe the cycles
get better as we go but I'm not sure I
think if I lost a $5 bill in my hometown
today I would have a less like Leslie
less likely opportunity of getting that
back than 50 years ago or 200 years ago
when it first America was first violent
so I'm not sure that with material
progress you don't get moral regress and
the other thing is that I think it's
very important that we don't worship
science on this altar if you and I had
talked about ulcers 30 years ago we
would say oh there's this all this new
strut study that it's stress does it and
aspirin and if we did it 20 years ago
we'd say wow there's this new thing
called h pylori an advil or add to it we
don't know what the next exegesis will
be I was looking at two drugs at my
dad thought were wonder drugs he's
passed away twenty years ago and one was
flomax and the other was zantac and I
just saw the other day that both of them
now have serious side effects and
they're they're even talking about
phasing both of them out and what I'm
getting at is not that they weren't good
drugs because they really helped him but
there's not going to ever be
something that's a magic bullet that
science is an evolutionary process that
has a bad and a worse choice but we want
immediate and instant perfection so if
you tell somebody today especially in
the coastal corridors the elite global
communities that if you're not 60 60 and
you're in pretty good health you've got
a 99.9 chance of not dying from this
virus they're going to tell you I can't
take the risk because one in a thousand
is not good enough for me because I'm a
blank blank blank I'm a fin in Syria I'm
a college administrator I'm this I'm a
media elite and the world is so perfect
I'm not going to risk it and more
importantly they're shielded and this is
the central truth of this entire
epidemic who are the heroes of this
epidemic I haven't called my financial
planner
I really haven't I am NOT helped any at
all by the Stanford vice Provost's of
diversity inclusion it doesn't matter I
don't think that Rachel Maddow is going
to say the United States yoohoo is
hilarious Lopez right now out there
working in the almonds or Joe Smith with
a gut driving all night to Costco to get
toilet paper there by 6 a.m. or the guy
that you call when your freezer comes
blows up and you need food and he shows
up from Home Depot and he doesn't have a
mask on and you say oh my god he doesn't
have a mask on because he's breathing
hard and he's trying to get you a new
freezer so I think that's been good it
really tells us that the essentials of
life never changed there are food fuel
health housing and if you can't get food
you can't go to a food market
and you can't go to Home Depot to fix
something and you can't get fuel for
your heating and and you're not gonna
let it live you can do a deal without
the other stove but there are people in
the shadows that we neglected we thought
they were global losers or they didn't
make it but I was thinking the other day
I was reading Richard the third just for
the heck of it again and I thought this
must be a financial planner when his
circuit breaker goes out or his baffle
on his toy it doesn't work he'll say
handyman handyman my kingdom for a
handyman because he's helpless most of
them right right Viktor trying to pick
on financial planners I like them
they're very brilliant people but right
now I'd rather have a guy who's a
handyman
Holman Jenkins in the Wall Street
Journal earlier this week
this is China Holman Jenkins on January
7th President Xi we now know this
president she gave a secret speech on
the Wuhan outbreak China's government
issued no public warning the Wuhan city
government permitted a gargantuan
banquet for 40,000 families on January
18th
Wuhan bigger than any American city at
11 million inhabitants was a major rail
hub inside China and through its
international airport exported thousands
of travelers a day to the world
Gigi Peng bares unique responsibility
for a global pandemic that will end up
killing millions close quote
Victor well I would add to his list the
key one for me is January 23rd when he
locked down all travel to and from Wuhan
to every Chinese city in his country and
he was perfectly willing for people he
thought were infected or could be
infected that posed a danger to Chinese
he was perfectly willing to have them
get on direct flight to San Francisco or
LAX or burn or Paris and he was also
perfectly willing to unleash the Chinese
military propaganda and Communist Party
megaphones who said that it was racist
in home
phobic they have a travel ban seven days
after he did and we were and we were the
beneficiaries of another 150,000
visitors from Ground Zero of the plague
and so I thought to myself when I heard
all this I said well that's the most
racist thing in the world to say that my
people who are Chinese have to be
protected but all those other people in
the world that's that's their problem
and then to say that you're racist for
not allowing people from my country to
come and possibly infect you in a way
that I wouldn't let them ever go to
infect each other and so and that was
effective and so I think what happened
is I'm not a conspiracy theorist who
think that the virus was necessarily
engineered I don't think it was
deliberate I think it's more likely that
they were way over their head in the
level of complexity they were
researching versus the level of security
they could master the virus got out they
tried to stop it they tried to hide it
because they thought it would hurt their
global brand and at some point and those
are the dates that you recited somebody
said that she you know what this thing
is out we can't stop it you can't put
the bottle the cork in the bottle and
it's gonna hurt us so let's just let the
whole thing go to hell in other words if
we're gonna get hurt
there's let's not let a crisis go to
waste I say that because almost
immediately they didn't warn us their
megaphone at the World Health
Organization mouths their platitudes and
fool people and people died but more
importantly what has China been doing
they had a propaganda campaign to bring
blame us even though we helped pay for
that damn laboratory and then they went
right out to the Spratly Island South
China Sea and started renaming islands
so that people during the panic would
know that they're there then there were
reports that they started to resume low
yield or no yield nuclear testing which
was outlawed and then they started
cracking down on Hong Kong and then
there were stories that they were going
to ignore international outcry about the
re-education camps and maybe use waiters
to go out and do
labor so what they've shown empirically
is that they're taking advantage of the
crisis and they feel and they haven't
told us how many people have died are
how many cases they've had I think it's
been the last four weeks and we're
stupid enough we the the Western world
that when we look at John Hopkins or
world meters we list China there with
this frozen figure and then we go over
and we look at deaths per million or
desk for cases fatality kit for cases
and then these idiots get on cable news
and say we're not doing as well as China
China how could they to be doing and
it's like saying wow you know in 1939
Hitler's done a lot better job with the
people who have mental mental problems
or they have cerebral palsy because
they're not the hospitals are empty of
them well he killed them all right and
I'm not saying they killed people with
the virus although they may have but my
god they understand our mind better than
we do they're the most brilliant
propagandist I've ever seen and deal in
their dealings with the Western liberal
mindset victor is is it too late to talk
about managing the relationship with
China has a new Cold War begun I think
John Kerry said just that didn't he have
a relationship with China well I think
there was a cold war going on and I'm
hoping it will stay at a Cold War where
they're going to what's gonna be
interesting is China if you look at
their strategy and the Communist Party
congresses it was to brag and humiliate
us in a tactical sense but strategically
not to get us get in a war with us after
all we got 6,000 nuclear weapons and we
have a sophisticated missile defense
system and there are only military
threat to us is when we get close to
them or cyber all of their technology is
appropriated from us they may master us
in 10 or 12 years but they're not quite
there and they have some real problems
with a sophisticated Japan on its
borders a sophisticated South Korea on
its borders a sophisticated Australia on
us for
a huge India that has border disputes it
doesn't like them and who knows about
Russia so what I'm getting at is they
were not in Hong Kong Taiwan and Hong
Kong or Taiwan and Hong Kong at Hong
Kong as is done very well and so I think
what they're thinking is oh oh this
virus preempted what we wanted to do but
it made us sort of it's sort of like
Hitler saying I well the the generals
telling Hitler you might have won Poland
but we were three years away when we
wanted this war it was too early for the
Japanese telling Yamamoto I wish you had
held off for two years so I think that
China would have preferred what this
estrangement another decade from now
because they're not ready for it so in a
strange of what here's the parallel that
comes to my mind well maybe it's a
parallel let me just put it in the form
of a question
Reagan takes office after a decade a
dozen years of day taught and the public
opinion polls show that the American
people have warmed to the Soviet Union
during that period of course they did
there was Richard Nixon kissing Brezhnev
on both cheeks when Brezhnev visited and
then the Soviets shot down Korean
airliner double-oh-seven and the polling
changed overnight nothing that Reagan
did although of course we know Reagan
was in favors that he ran a campaign on
standing up to the Soviets but the
Soviets showed there was a moment when
everyone could see what kind of regime
it really was and it feels to me as
though that kind of inflection point in
public I don't even want to call it
public opinion but an actual realistic
perception on the part of ordinary
Americans about what China really is may
now have happened with this virus am i
being melodramatic here no I don't think
you are I think we're we ourselves are
evolving and people are starting to
blame the Chinese but remember the
difference is that this media which the
liberal Shorenstein Media Center at
Harvard said was ninety-three percent
negative to the presidency has been
basically regurgitating Chinese talking
points and that they've said to us who
were flew in the face that China is
blaming is being blamed by Trump to
deflect from his own culpability is what
they're professional so they're not
getting we're not getting through our
media a dispassionate disinterested view
of what the threat China I don't think
that's gonna be sustainable because you
know why you don't because the modern
Left worships at the altar of the
European Union and they feel that we
want to be where the EU isn't in tenure
and the EU is sick of China not just
Italy and Spain as you would but even
Germany there was a German editorial
blame I mean far more accusatory of
China anything I've seen in the American
press because they have a much thinner
margin of error in terms of fuel
supplies GDP unemployment and they're
very angry and they're bleh and so are
the former Commonwealth countries like
Canada or Australia and even countries
like Mexico are furious and so China is
not it's gonna be roundly condemned the
worldwide India's attacking at the
belton Road client countries are saying
we're not gonna pay you back Africa
especially and so I don't see that that
propaganda is going to work indefinitely
and the other thing is the left wasn't
too worried about China's military
domination or economic they were
two-degree they were worried they
weren't compromised they they focused on
human rights violations and with and
they've got a whole pot pourri of these
when you have scientist or who just
disappears or data that's destroyed or
people that were deliberately exposed
that makes the left a little bit more
sensitive to calling that out but
everybody has their their pet Chinese
complaint military economic financial
and what I'm worried most about Peter is
not that we're gonna decouple
because I think we are
but there's two things that really worry
me one is the process of decoupling
right it's sort of like a divorce you
read about that they're all happy after
it's over they get along but during the
process both sides lie and connive and
we're not lying and conniving it's just
gonna I think the Chinese are not going
to freeze up
I mean allow frozen bank accounts to be
unfrozen I think they're not going to
compensate companies for their factories
or their investments or any of the
amount the money that's stuck over there
in China and the second thing is yes we
got to have pharmaceuticals yes we have
to have railroads rest we have military
technology yes medical supplies but we
have spent a large portion percentage of
our K through 12 and our undergraduate
experience and our professional schools
and what the Chinese would call fluff
social science
- studies courses and we're not turning
out the stem student or the math and
engineering people that we need to get a
grip on these ki and they still under
studies instead of calculus yeah and
it's really tragic because the top minds
of these disciplines that create the new
research and the new breakthroughs are
all American but then the middle level
who absorb it and take it back to China
there's far more of them than American
students studying that stuff right I
guess if I wanted to be really cruel I
would say and get back on a vice provost
of inclusion that that might sound very
well in theory but for every Provost of
diversity inclusion we could probably
hire three professors of electrical
engineering and now them and then we
could we could we could prepare us I
don't think we're prepared yet to be
autonomous in the areas we need to be
and we're gonna have to be very careful
because China has a hold over those
supply chains and we have to find a way
and that's why people get so food is
that
let me just name three three ways in
which China differs from the Soviet
Union to China's advantage three ways
that complicate any effort to draw lines
between us and them and one of course is
that the supply chains yeah take take
your grocery cart down aisle after aisle
at Walmart that stuff's made in China
yeah get it if we're talking about a
virus but get a respiratory tract in
fact get a bacterial infection and take
a z-pack the antibiotics come from China
they make stuff on which we have come to
rely 1 2 they have something the Soviets
never had cash and lots of it and as you
well know up and down the valley where
I'm seated you're in a different Valley
you're in the Central Valley I'm in
Silicon Valley the Chinese have
investments in company after company
after company I don't I just don't know
how you unwind those and then the third
point you mentioned this in a column
just the other day is it smart I'm
quoting you is it smart to have some
360,000 you know Chinese students
enrolled in u.s. colleges there were
never anything like that in numbers from
the Soviet Union a token physicists
would study for six months at MIT and
then go back to Moscow State how did
let's let's let's pause it that we're
awake to the danger right now in a way
that we never have before how on earth
do we untangle all of this it's gonna be
very difficult and I've had a forty or
that even frightens me more and that is
people had no problem demonizing Russia
they were called the alt-right the
Orthodox crazies the Rasputin like
country white and what China has done is
they have grafted their monolithic
racist xenophobic society that
systematically puts people in
re-education camps for the religion or
doesn't allow Africans to go into a
McDonald's and DJing right and they've
transmogrified themselves as part of the
affirmative action identity politics
other in the United States and its
insidious so I write an article to the
effect that I'm worried about that
360,000 student body because even if one
or two percent were operatives of the
Chinese Communist Party that's a large
number three hundred three thousand and
then I'm also worried why are we
gagging that group for pay 10% above
real cost to subsidize these
universities at a time of Americans have
1.6 trillion dollars and collective
student debt so I write this immediately
slate comes out and attacks me there's
no insidious it is she says that was
racist for mentioning the Chinese
students but get this
slate itself her own magazine she didn't
even know it six months earlier had
written an article calling this sinister
because they had done some research and
said that most of the 360,000 Chinese
students were not representative of the
1.4 billion Chinese but the word that
they used were the princelings they were
the princelings of crooked provincial
officials and Chinese communist elite
that were sending their kids over here
to master American culture on the
premise that we and our arrogance and
ulis would think oh wow they came over
here they saw rap music they wore jeans
they had the liberal atmosphere of the
college landscape they love us we've
corrupted them haha and no they could
develop contempt for us mastered our
lingo notice how that they use that word
conspiracy theory even better than the
left us and there so they have become
immune from criticism by playing a
traditional postmodern American victim
and you dare criticize them and you're
called racist and xenophobic and that's
that's there's no no accident that Joe
Biden and the central Communist Party
used the exact same adjectives of the
travel ban racist and xenophobic
picture some last questions here before
the coronavirus the conventional wisdom
about Donald Trump's re-election
campaign was that he would have to
planks to big claims one was a roaring
economy lowest unemployment in some
cases lowest on the Connecticut
unemployment since records began to be
kept lowest unemployment and the other
was that the Democrats had moved so far
to the left that they were all but
socialists put term it any way you want
to but big government to the nth degree
and now here we sit just weeks later the
economy is dead I saw an estimate from
one of the analysts in New York that GDP
would be down at an annual rate this
quarter of 25 percent and as you noted
more than 20 million people are out of
work all right so that big claim is gone
it's just not true anymore
it mean it may not be his fault you and
I would certainly argue it isn't his
fault he can't make that argument
anymore and then every Republican in the
Senate voted for a 2.2 trillion dollar
bailout package and you know those are
numbers is that are in the range of what
Bernie Sanders was talking about for
health care or Alexandria okay zo Cortes
was talking about we has a down payment
on the green New Deal
so suddenly Republicans are signing up
to vast expansions of government
spending I can't quote he can't accuse
the Democrats of socialism in the same
way that he was able to so the question
is what is your run on here's the way
what Walter Russell Mead argued in The
Wall Street Journal this is a couple of
days ago this week with the economy in
shambles and the pandemic ravaging the
country making the election a referendum
on China is perhaps mr. Trump's only
chance to extend his White House tenure
close quote
Victor well he has two chances but
you're absolutely right because whether
it was fair or
or whether it was moral or ethical we
knew given this present status of the
Progressive Party that this crisis was
going to be interpreted as being able to
do something that Robert Mueller and
Adam Schiff and Jerrold Nadler could not
that is destroy the trump presidency or
at least and and everything is
weaponized so they've created as you say
this lose-lose paradox if Trump on May
1st unlocks the economy and we go back
to us partial normality then if
something breaks out in Louisiana and we
have a hot spot then Trump put money
over lives and he killed us and he's got
blood on his hand if on the other hand
nothing happens or no things will happen
but more or less it was wise thing to
follow the Swedish model that economy
it's gonna be a real question whether
it's gonna recover and so it's going to
be the Democrats are running against
Herbert Hoover who ruined the economy
and put you out of work so he's going to
lose either way so how does he get
reelected there's only two chances as I
see it one is he's going to have to
change the narrative and say I warned
and get clips and say people I warned
you about Chinese perfidy I warned you
about their mercantile system I warned
you they couldn't be trusted I warned
you that they were causing trouble all
over the world and this is the I had a
travel ban early on you could and that's
Walter Russell means right but there's
another issue that he didn't mention
Donald Trump is not running on a
popularity contest it is true that the
Democrats are gonna try to have on the
ballot down Trump versus the disaster of
the coronavirus right no we're running
the coronavirus against him but that's
not going to be viable they're running
Joe Biden against him so Joe Biden was
worn out after a year of campaigning so
the Democratic narrative was we're gonna
go put good old Joe from Scranton in a
comfortable fireside environment and
he's gonna do fireside chats like FDR
everyday he's going to voice some words
of wisdom unite us let's have the war
production board let's do this and it's
going
be a great situation meanwhile he's
promised us a diversity vice-president
and people would be traipsing in and he
would be interviewing people of color
and all and this would be wonderful you
and what happened
no sooner that that's narrative start
then and I'm trying to be as nice as I
can because we're all gonna be 77 but
hopefully not quite 77 in the way that
don't that Joe Biden is I'd rather be 77
the way that Bernie Sanders has been the
sensitives much more hail but the point
is he thought he could be extemporaneous
it didn't work so then they said use the
telephone it didn't work and then they
said use both neither work and then they
said don't even get on TV and it was
almost as if like whatever his ailing
him is not through progressing in our
arithmetic rate it's geometric and the
more rest and the more relaxation he
gets the worse he he performs so what
we've had now is this really Orwellian
situation where it's like the 1944
election when everybody knew that FDR
would not be able right to perform and
whoever the vice president was and it
was Henry Wallace a socialist was going
to be President and so what happened is
they fought oh my gosh we got to get
this guy off the ticket and they did at
the convention and put on Harry Truman
and of course that happened to me he was
dead and I'm not saying suggesting that
Joe Biden is dead but what we said what
we're witnessing now is if we just take
away the veil there is an audition for
the next what they think will be present
the United States and so everybody is
trying to say Joe Biden is not capable
of running an effective campaign he will
not be an effective president so we'll
point our cabinet in advance have them
spread out and do the campaigning and
then we have to get a vice president
that we can all agree on could do the
job but yet he's already boxed himself
in they seemed for some reason to be
enamored with Andrew Cuomo over though
he's reigning over a state that has the
worst fatality to caseload and all most
in the world and yet they wanted
on that ticket and yet they can't put
him on the ticket because he didn't
campaign and he's not a woman or
minority or both and so they got a lot
of problems and I think that's it from
the greatest greatest asset right now if
she would take thing if she would take
the post with Michelle Obama transform
Joe Biden's Jen would she reassemble the
of the Obama coalition and just and
defeat Trump in a landslide well she
would be there's two things that we
don't know she her argument would be
that even though you may be sexist voter
I don't really care because we Kanade
Barack's coming back for 16 he'll have a
sixteen year term that's what the
subtext would be but the other thing is
why does everybody like Michelle Obama
why is she pulled so high why does her
memoir it's because she's not a Michelle
Obama
the real Michelle Obama appeared in 2008
the way she always was and what did she
do she came out and said she had never
been proud of this country she said this
is a darn right mean country
she said they always raise the bar on
people this is a woman who's making the
third of the million dollars playing
offer and then they said Michelle you're
not running for everything you're not a
community organized or anymore you're
not the point man to the chicawa just
shut the blank up and smile and be a
first lady like Nancy Reagan and have a
pet project nutrition tri nutrition and
she did and she turned out to be
brilliant at it and everybody loved
Michelle so she's gonna go back now on
the campaign trail and she's going to be
Michelle Obama in 2008 and she's gonna
have to campaign and go into a big time
wrestling we party with Donald Trump I
don't think that's gonna be the same
Michelle that we have such fond memories
oh I really don't so there's some
problems there and I think we'll see
what happens but it all hinges on right
now Peter to two issues and that is if
the economy is snapped back in May will
it be in the ascendant
in October that is after losing 10% GDP
Willoughby's well the the third quarter
come out and say it was either zero or
it was on the way up and then people say
you know Trump didn't cause that it's
restored and are we going to see Joe
Biden not be able to pronounce words not
know where he is
and people are going to say you know I
like good old Joe but I'd rather have
Trump at least in in you know I'll i'd
rather have a compos mentis Trump then
Biden and we don't know the answer to
that yet and remember when you remember
it from your own political career when
George HW Bush in 1988 left the
Republican convention Mike Dukakis with
17 points ahead of 17 points I remember
that very well and you remember that
Ronald Reagan at one point was nine
points behind Jimmy Carter then the
economy took off and had a twelvemonth
7 7 percent GDP increase and blew Carter
out of the world so anything can happen
now and we know one thing with Donald
Trump is you cannot trust the polls
because people feel that if they say to
an anonymous caller that they're for
Trump or an anonymous texture that
information will be aggregated in some
nefarious way against them so they're
they're not going to say but he's right
around now on the Real Clear Politics he
goes between 45 and 47 he won at 46%
before 2016 Victor last question three
figures from the classical world this is
an exam get ready three figures from the
classical world augustus after the
assassination of Julius Caesar the Civil
War of the triumvirate augustus restores
order
rome goes on to new heights the Augustan
age lasts over a century constantine he
moves the capital from Rome to
Constantinople the Roman Empire
continues but it's not the same it's
just not the same it never achieves
anything like its former morale and
splendor and Agustin who from his
vantage point
hippo in North Africa watches the sack
of Rome and the definitive fall Rome
continues but in some form but he sees a
definitive fall of the civilisation that
he loved something basic was over
Augustus who rebuilds and Rome goes on
to new heights Constantine who holds it
together but it's never the same and
Agustin who watches it fall
which of those three figures best
represents our present moment well
that's a revealing question because it
requires me to be answer either what I
would like to be true or what I think is
true you go ahead and give us both you
being you I'll take as much of my reach
out and give you a third alternative and
that's the Emperor Justinian after
things that collapse because I think a
lot of ways America's collapsed if I
look at a lot of indications for as far
as school test scores or harmony between
people or red state blue state divides
or infrastructure etc but something like
that had happened and everybody thought
the Rome was over with and it was in the
West and then that this nut who spoke
Latin became Emperor Justinian and first
of all he gave me the year roughly is
right around five thirty thirty-five 40s
so then ad so then what did he do he's
he said we've got to have all of Roman
law over the last thousand years
aggregating he created the Justinian
code which the basis for modern European
law and then he said we've got to
restore the East the Empire so he was
sent out a brilliant guy named Bella
Soros and they did reconstruct the
eastern empire and then he said we've
got to restore the West and he almost
did he had old North Africa he had all
of the Balkans he had most of Italy had
parts of Spain of course the bubonic
plague that we talked about earlier
wiped out 500,000 but my point is then
he said we need a matte majestic Testim
to Christianity and he built Hagia
Sophia Santa Sophia Saint Sophia
Cathedral it was the largest dome in the
world until the Saint Peter's at the
Vatican what I'm getting at that lasted
a thousand years and it created a it
saved the Balkans and it saved
Mediterranean culture and it did it
saved classical thought because in the
West during the collapse we wouldn't
have had two manuscripts of Thucydides
or Herodotus a lot of Aristotle or Plato
it was saved
not as the politically correct decision
says in the Arabic were only 2% won most
of it was saved by Byzantine scholars
and that was written no they knew Greek
people in the West had forgotten what
I'm getting at is that I think what
we're trying to do right now is go back
to basics and say you don't have a
postmodern sophisticated
cool society as Hollywood depicts or or
TVs prepare or mute popular music does
or snapchat or Twitter because that's
not a good indication of how healthy you
are every society has to go back to the
existential foundations do we have fuel
I was really worried when we had to deal
with corrupt Middle East regimes
somebody brilliant people figured out
how to horizontally drill and frack and
convinced us to do it and we have less
carbon emissions and we've ever had and
we're the world's largest producer of
natural gas and or somebody and I'm
looking out the window and I snow a lot
of these people said you know what just
let us go we can we can take an almond
orchard 30 years ago that produce a
thousand pounds and we can produce 3,200
pounds with one tenth of the number of
pesticides and one-fifth the amount of
Labor and then somebody said you know
our universities are sick the
undergraduate curriculum czar sick but
don't let us contaminate science and
math and engineering and so I look at
the rating
of universities in the world the top
2817 are in the United States Caltech
MIT Stanford and it's not because of
their you know ethnic studies women's
studies leisure studies Peace Studies
programs
it's what counts they're good at they're
better that they're not just good at it
they're better than anybody in the world
I'm not a big fan of the people who run
Silicon Valley but I have enormous
admiration for creating an American
industry better than anything and when I
look at a lot of people in this country
about half the country are patriotic and
they're confident and what they've done
is in the last 20 years they've made the
United States the biggest and safest
food producer the biggest and face the
safest energy producer the biggest and
best professional education producer and
we have they're still even though it's
been as under salt we have the best
constitution in the world and we're not
even for all of the tragic abortions and
the child missing us and living in your
basement - you're 30 the fertility rate
is still higher than most of postmodern
societies including China's and South
Korea's in Japan so well I just looked
at I say throughout history over 2,500
years food fuel education children all
of these things are important and we're
doing pretty well in them and we could
be posed with the right leadership after
this thing is over to be in a much
stronger position the countries that are
really hurting right now I think or
North Korea Iran China Russia Russia's
being wiped out with this energy war and
falling prices and world for all of our
self-criticism and bickering and he did
that no you did that we're much better
position if we'll just be calm and
remember we can say to ourselves let's
call this the corona project we did the
Manhattan Project we did the b-29
project we did the space race project
man on the moon project and let's just
get a little bit more upbeat and we can
do it rather than oh my gosh there's one
out of a thousand chance I'm gonna die I
can't go on and I think we'd make it
Victor Davis Hanson the author of one
book after another most recently the
case for Trump speaking to us today from
his ranch in the San Joaquin Valley of
California thank you thank you for
having me Peter for uncommon knowledge
the Hoover Institution and Fox Nation
I'm Peter Robinson
[Music]
you